Previously on
Roswell, New Mexico...
MICHAEL:
Alex and I fixed it.
We got the Lockhart machine to
work properly so we can retrieve
the rest of Theo's equation.
That would totally give us
the advantage.
Whoever gets the science
first controls
whose body Max stays in.
I found the alien the Lockhart
machine's trying to contact.
His name is Dallas.
LIZ:
You found the alien.
We found his best friend who's
been trying to save his life.
You said on the phone, this was
a matter of life and death, Max.
Around here,
they call me "Jones."
(door creaks)
I shouldn't
be here, Buck.
It's almost time.
You're gonna be fine.
How?
Every time it happens,
it's like my head's
gonna explode,
and all I see is
that weird machine.
What if I lose control,
chaos ensues?
Mesa Pines Gazette
leads with
"Cursed Orphan Weirdo
Kills His Only Friend"?
Hey, Captain Spiral,
you know the part
in Goblet of Fire when Harry
puts the mermaid egg underwater,
and it stops screaming?
Johnny Doe,
you're the mermaid egg.
So you're gonna drown me?!
Don't be a Hufflepuff.
Everyone knows
sound's muted by water.
Why are you doing this?
'Cause this goes
beyond bunkmates.
You know why.
We're all we've got.
(laughs softly)
♪ I don't want to
set the world... ♪
(yelling)
Dallas!
(echoing):
(Dallas yells)
Dallas.
(groans)
(music fades)
(sighs)
(gasps)
♪ ♪
♪ This is my anthem, I'm here
to pick up my ransom... ♪
Oh, uh,
um, uh, sorry. I was...
I thought we were
gonna go find Heath,
but...
No, no, no. You're good.
You're-you're good.
♪ Taking 'em home ♪
♪ Turning 'em gold,
everything I put my hands on ♪
♪ Yeah... ♪
It's weird, uh,
seeing you without,
uh...
the tattoos.
Yeah, well, you never liked
the longhorn anyway.
(laughing):
The-the weirdest part
is thinking that Jones probably
slept in my bed
and ate my Comet Crunch.
I'm all filled up
on breakfast puns this morning.
Is Heath taking any
of your calls?
No. And every text he ignores
about stealing my tapes
and spores only ups me wanting
to strangle him.
Do we really need
all that stuff?
Every attempt
at separating your cells
from Jones' feels
like Groundhog Day.
The membranes just
fuse back together.
When rebuilding your
heart, I was experimenting
with binding proteins,
but without my tapes,
I'm not even close
to square one, and...
We're gonna find him.
Okay?
You're right. I'm going
to sever your tether from Jones
and get you back
in your tattooed body--
longhorn and all--
so things can get
back to normal.
♪ I'm hungry for life... ♪
And what does that mean?
I don't know.
Or I-I... You...
You've given me a
lot to think about.
And I know where you stand
in regards to us, or, like,
if the-the possibility
of there being...
Why are you smiling?
(laughing):
Well, just...
it is rare
to see a genius falter.
(laughs)
Take your time.
Okay, whatever happens next,
that, uh...
that's in your hands.
(phone chimes)
To what do I owe
this spread of cometquiles
and flying sauce-cakes?
I am just making sure you
are back in fighting shape.
How is that noggin holding up
after your run-in
with the Lockhart machine?
Much better, thank you.
Good.
Especially now
that you're here.
Mm.
Hey, at ease, soldier.
I've been hammering
out a theory
on why the Lockhart machine
turns on every 47 days.
Okay.
Mm-hmm.
Tell me.
You said your predecessor
was studying weather patterns.
Lightning patterns,
specifically.
Okay. So,
at any given moment,
thousands of lightning storms
create an electromagnetic wave.
As these waves
combine and grow,
they create a repeating
atmospheric heartbeat.
This heartbeat is the Earth's
fundamental resonant frequency.
And so I'm guessing
that the machine was set
to pulse a message
on this heartbeat,
but my father's
ill-conceived addition
caused it to trigger
on a 47-day cycle?
Exactly. I just can't wait
another month, though,
for whatever message my mom
has locked in the machine.
The science to end the fight
is trapped in the glass.
Okay, but even if this works,
don't we need the alien
that it's calling out to?
Isobel and Maria found him.
He, uh, lives out in Lincoln,
goes by "Dallas."
If I didn't know better,
I-I would say
I was looking at your file.
The way he bounced from
one foster home to another.
Have you... have you read this?
I'll see the movie
when it comes out.
All that matters
is that we get Dallas
in front of that machine.
Do you think you can get
the wannabe-TARDIS
out of Deep Sky for a spin?
(gasps)
Okay, um, how does
a journalist
from Chicago win three
state medals in archery?
My parents encouraged me
to follow my heart.
You should, too.
Uh... (laughs)
(sighs)
It's empowering
to nock the arrow...
...draw the bow...
(sighs)
...and watch it silently
cut across the sky.
Ah.
See?
(laughing):
Oh, my.
You can do anything
you put your mind to.
(phone ringing)
Uh...
My job interview
at the Dalien beckons.
Are you thinking
about sticking around Roswell?
I'm exploring options.
♪ And you will never
get me back... ♪
ISOBEL:
Paging Dr. Abs.
A hug is needed
in room two.
(laughs)
(laughing)
Come here.
Mm.
Oh, my gosh.
I am so sorry that I am late,
but I am so glad that you
are here and not dead.
Well, alive is a low bar,
but I'm happy, too.
Mm.
Please sit.
Thank you. Um...
that's for you.
Okay.
You found another alien?
Looks like
your practice is growing.
Does he know
about his otherworldly pedigree?
From what I can
tell, no, but, uh,
Michael and I are excited to
welcome him into the pod squad.
Yeah, you seem oddly chipper
about this.
Yeah, I am.
I'm thinking that maybe my
calling is helping other people.
I've been... I've been coaching
Rosa with her power, right?
And she has been killing it.
So maybe I can help this guy
accept his new identity.
Yeah, well, according
to these scans,
you're also gonna have
to tell him that he suffers
from acute traumatic deficits
in his temporal lobe.
Well, I'll just get him
to open up
after one of his sermons,
I guess.
He's a preacher?
Yeah.
Oh, but he's, like,
a cool preacher.
He thinks
his boss is in the sky,
and you want to tell him
he fell from it?
It'll shatter
his worldview.
Let me gather my files,
and we'll do it together.
I mean, maybe if we show him
that you have
the same physiology,
he'll be more inclined
to trust you
before you pull the existential
rug out from under him.
Right.
But look, as I've filled in
for Father Linus lately,
I've gotten
to know a lot of you.
You shared your
prayers with me.
They were prayers for unity.
Because, you see,
Roswell is a town divided
by hatred.
But you see,
that... that hatred,
that uncertainty--
it does not have to define us.
I want you all
to do me a favor.
I want you to turn to a neighbor
because you just might
be surprised
how much the two of
you have in common.
Hey, neighbor. I don't think
I can take much more of this.
You know what, Michael?
I think this might actually be
a really good exercise for you.
Hmm.
Hey, neighbor.
A scientist and two aliens
walk into a church.
Have you come to light a candle
after a night of sinning
with our brother?
Okay, not the time
or place, Isobel.
Max and I hit a roadblock
looking for Heath.
I'm hoping his
best friend/patient
will be able to
help me find him.
Ah, get in line,
Speedy Ortecho.
We need our long-lost relative
to retrieve Theo's "schmience"
from inside the mystical jukebox
my mom built.
Thinking a little mindscape
nudge to invite him over.
Open up over some acetone
margaritas might do the trick.
Ooh, do you mind poking around
for Heath's whereabouts?
Oh. Ye of little faith.
And how about you, sir?
(whooshing)
Yeah.
I'm gonna tell you what I see,
and I'm gonna give you
an opportunity
to tell me I'm wrong.
Two burglars at the
desert outside your house
were identified as
high-priced mercenaries.
Both men were found
slaughtered a day later
by a confounding murder
weapon. Burned them
from the inside out.
(grunting)
I linked similar scorch marks
in their getaway car.
A few days later,
two tourists go missing.
And a similar scorch pattern
is found in their car.
And Pete's body is found
with injuries
consistent with those sustained
in both crimes.
Look, forgive me, ma'am,
but what you're describing
is a lightsaber.
And besides that,
most crimes are personal.
I mean, these three entities
don't seem to know each another,
and I mean, I barely knew Pete.
Oh, you and Pete didn't like
one another,
but he filled me in
a lot about you.
You were a suspect in the
murder of your brother-in-law.
And there were some
inconsistencies
of electrical outages stemming
from your house two years ago.
Fractal burn patterns
all around town.
I went back to
Zeke Murphy's car,
and I found one of them
on the hood.
Oddity surrounds
you, Evans.
So the oddity of this case
seems right up your alley.
The fact that whoever did this
makes you look at me
with questions--
frankly, that pisses me off.
I promise you,
no one is more committed
to Roswell than I am.
God, you know, I want
to be wrong here, Evans.
I really do,
but as you know
from my track record,
I rarely am.
Which leaves us
with only one option.
You need to turn in your badge
till we straighten this out.
Iz? Hey! Hey, you all right?
Oh.
(groans)
DALLAS:
Thank God you're awake.
Uh, just don't move.
The ambulance just showed up.
You called 911?
Yeah. When someone passes out,
I rely on the good book
of Henry Gray.
Oh, my gosh,
honestly, I am fine.
This happens to me all the time.
I'm just...
Very thirsty.
Are you sure?
Mm-hmm. Totally fine.
Okay, I'll... I'll call off
the cavalry then.
What's the deal
with the mind shove?
I don't know.
Do you think he's on to us?
No. It felt involuntary.
I mean, that's what I get
for violating consent.
Alex has the machine,
but only for a few hours.
How do we get Baby Yoda
where we need him to be?
Okay, y-you guys do this.
I got to go charm an address
out of the preacher man.
Excuse me.
Um, hi. Before
I lose you,
I, uh, was
wondering if you could
help me find someone.
Heath Tuchman?
Oh, yeah.
I'm Liz Ortecho.
Oh. You're the lab partner
from L.A.
Uh, do you have any idea
where he's at?
We're working on a
project together,
but his cell reception
is horrible.
He's probably up in his, uh,
family's cabin up in Santa Rosa.
He kind of holes up there
sometimes
when he goes deep science.
Uh, I can drop you a pin?
Yeah, please.
And sent.
(phone chimes)
Got it.
Thanks.
Yup.
I thought he was getting
rid of the EMTs.
Okay, change of plan.
You lure Dallas.
I'll deal with this.
We said
we would do this together.
Okay, fine.
You mindscape the EMTs.
I'll lure Dallas to the junkyard
that I don't own.
Sorry. Look, they insisted
that they check you out
at the hospital.
Look, I can follow behind
in my car and...
give you a ride back
afterwards, though.
MICHAEL:
Don't you dare leave me alone
with that preacher.
ISOBEL:
Calling an audible.
MICHAEL:
Care to fill me in on it?
ISOBEL: No time.
(high-pitched ringing)
(hissing)
Oh, my gosh.
I hate when
that happens.
The good news is, my friend here
is a great mechanic, and
he has an hour free. I'm sure
he can help you.
I, uh, patched up
the radiator,
replaced the engine fan,
and I topped off
your coolant.
All right.
Yup.
Good to go then.
No. Your, um, catalytic
converter-- it's corroded.
That's why it overheated.
Would you, uh,
mind if I lend a hand?
I dig seeing people
in their element.
Helps me get
to know my parishioners,
especially the new ones.
I'm not a new parishioner.
I only tagged along
because Isobel insisted.
Well, something must have still
inspired you to tag along?
Look, I-I get it, man.
You're not the first to be
intimidated by this collar.
Would it help if I told you
about my three favorite B's?
Bourbon, billiards,
and Bob Marley.
I really need some
room for my tools.
To fix the catalytic converter?
Yeah.
Which is nowhere
near the engine.
Yeah, my car's fine,
isn't it?
Which begs the question.
If I make you so uncomfortable,
you don't want to be left alone
with me, why stall?
(vehicle approaching)
(vehicle door opens)
Excuse me. Customer.
You positive this guy
doesn't know he's an alien?
'Cause I'm pretty sure
he heard the brain tweet
that I sent you back
at the church.
Good luck.
(door creaks)
We really need to stop breaking
into Heath Tuchman's properties.
(door creaks closed)
Well, we're definitely
in the right place.
If his work is
here, where is he?
You.
(high-pitched ringing)
What's up, Doc?
Perimeter's clear.
No sign of Heath,
but I did find this.
Jacket I bought you?
Jones was here?
Looks like your handwriting,
meaning they're working
together.
That makes sense he would
go after your lab partner
and try to make a deal.
Heath's the next best thing
to you,
especially
with all your research.
This.
This is a letter I wrote
describing where
I buried the tapes.
I gave it to Kyle.
It was in his office.
Why would Heath have been
in Kyle's office?
I don't know.
When he was looking
for Dr. Holden? I don't know.
(electrical buzzing)
Hey.
What's wrong?
I got comfortable thinking
Jones was just gonna lay low.
He's been playing us ever since
I opened the cavern door.
I should have seen this coming.
No. No one saw
your genetic replica
and my ex-partner working
together on the bingo card.
Okay? So let's just
see how far this unholy alliance
has gone, and let's catch up.
(sighs)
Okay.
Okay, um...
I recognize some
of these formulas from my tapes.
Heath's still working
under the assumption
that CRISPR will splice
through binding proteins.
But he needs all the stuff
you did to Maria, though, right?
Sound frequency manipulation.
He's not there yet.
But it does look like
they're making some headway
on the equation.
I mean, Heath's not
a criminal mastermind,
but he's a savvy geneticist.
It's not gonna take him long
to figure out
the remaining components.
I bet with your tapes back,
we can beat him to the punch.
Oh, it's okay.
Liz won't mind
if I borrow some
of her CRISPR chemicals.
Where's her research bag?
Liz broke my bond
with Maria DeLuca,
and I know
Little Miss Mad Scientist loves
to keep excessive notes.
Listen, I know your friend's
life is on the line right now.
So, I'm assuming you're Cagney
to Space Lacey over here,
but this galaxy turd is
using you to do his bidding.
He is never going
to heal Dallas.
I have experience
in Dallas's unique physiology,
so please
just let me...
(high-pitched ringing)
There's Ortecho's bag.
Heath wouldn't waste his time
treating a problem
when he's already seen proof
of a cure.
Isn't that right?
(high-pitched ringing)
(choking)
I always hated you Valentis.
(panting)
(intercom beeps)
NURSE:
Heads up, Dr. V.
Sheriff Taylor's en route
and pissed.
(groaning)
HEATH:
Hey, hey!
Just let him go, all right?
I know where
we can get our hands
on the rest of the chemicals
we need.
(choking)
(groans)
(coughs, pants)
DALLAS:
I... I know people
see the collar
and think "nice guy,"
and I am,
but unlike fishes and loaves,
my patience does have an end.
Yeah, I think I
should probably go.
Someone's coming
I want you to talk to.
Could you just give me
a couple more minutes?
Does this friend have
an explanation
that satisfies why you were
in my office the other day,
or asking about J.D.
and-and Camp Mesa Pines,
or why you have me standing
in a junkyard right now?
That's what I thought.
ISOBEL:
I know you can hear my thoughts.
Please don't go.
(phone chimes)
Just got an email
from Kyle.
Jones and Heath were just
in his office.
They... took my bag.
(scoffs)
All of my theories for using
resonant sound frequency
to sever the connection
are in there.
If-if Heath solves
this equation before Michael
is able to get it
out of the machine,
then Jones'll be able to stay
in your body permanently.
Okay, hey.
We'll figure this out, okay?
Hey, none of this is your fault.
You've dedicated your life
to saving Maria and me.
Heath is a desperate man who's
making all the wrong moves
in the name of
saving his friend.
You got to let
yourself off the hook.
These are Heath's
missteps, not yours.
Maybe I could use that
to reason with him.
Heath still thinks
CRISPR is the answer.
There is only one place
that he would go.
Hey.
Ever had one of those days
where you, uh,
just can't find what
you're looking for? (laughs)
Yup. That's why I'm here.
I'm looking for your statement
from the night of the break-in.
I wish I could help, but
there's someplace I got to be.
You've been out of town
for quite some time.
Must have been
in a rush, leaving
your car and phone
at the crime scene.
Am I suspect, Sheriff?
Should you be?
You disappeared
from a crime scene
that's connected
to four homicides
and two missing persons.
I think it's time
you tell me where you've been.
Uh, I was with my uncle.
Here. I can give
you his number.
Was, uh, Isobel
at this family reunion?
Of course not. Why?
Well, she also happened
to be away two days ago.
And she was seen with Deputy
Pete on the day he was killed.
That means nothing.
So, um...
And yet, the day before he died,
he was obsessed
with doing right by her.
She had nothing to do with this.
You're getting mighty defensive.
And I've seen plenty
of guilty men in my life,
and you sure look like...
Is that a file
on Isobel and Max?
It's nothing you can see
without a warrant.
Which is why I came prepared.
What in the...?
Uh-uh.
(groans)
(handcuffs clicking)
Uh, okay,
I-I still don't
understand how...
how you knew that
I would hear you.
Okay, look, clearly,
there's something special
about you.
Have you ever wondered
what that might be?
I mean, my entire life,
I've heard the voices of people
within earshot, you know, even
when their mouths were closed.
And you know,
when I was young,
I'd tell adults, and
they'd say I was crazy,
until I joined this youth group,
and I realized
I was actually
hearing people's prayers.
But you don't believe me.
No, no. Uh, no, no, no,
I do, because
Michael and I...
we experienced the same thing.
Which is how
our kind communicate
with each other.
You see, Dallas...
...we're aliens.
I know about the night
you were found wandering
in Lake Mesa Pines.
That's the same night
that Michael and I were
discovered just like you.
Seven years old,
alone, naked and mute.
Okay.
Let me show you something.
(high-pitched ringing)
Ta-da!
See?
It's cool. Wait.
Dallas?
(mutters, gasps)
(high-pitched ringing)
(groans)
This is going south
fast, Guerin.
Yeah, you're right.
Chitchat time's over.
No. Guerin, wait.
(machine chirps, whirs)
(yelling)
You've seen this before.
Every 47 days for the
last 25 years of my life.
Keep that thing away from me!
Whoa. Oh, my God.
(groans)
Wait.
Leave me the hell alone.
All of you.
ISOBEL:
Wait.
(engine starts, revs)
I'm turning it on.
Wait. Hold on. Hold on.
No. Dallas just stormed
out of here, Alex.
The only play now is
to rip off the Band-Aid
and hope whatever he sees drives
him off the road somewhere
so I can find him, and
I'm gonna question him.
Did you see
the look on his face?
He lost his mind.
The only way
you're getting his help now is
by talking him
off the ledge first.
Talking failed.
I-I don't get it.
You have been searching
for somebody like you
your entire life.
And you've found somebody, and
you don't want to talk to them?
What am I supposed to say
exactly?
What you need to do is you need
to think about how you felt
when you first learned
who you are.
Oh, I have.
And that is exactly why
I don't want to talk to him.
Because I read
his file.
I read his file three times.
I can't relive that again.
(sighs)
You need to stop
being afraid of your past.
'Cause the only way
you're gonna get
what you want out of this
is to show Dallas
how similar his journey is
to yours.
LIZ:
Bandelier University keeps
CRISPR in their biolab.
Guard said they waved
me through security
about 20 minutes ago, so it
means we're in the right place.
Comforting. Biogenetics lab
is down this way.
Oh, my God.
Has she been stabbed?
(sighs)
Hey, fight. Come on. Please.
Hello? Come on.
Damn it!
Thanks.
I was counting
on you today, Kyle.
I mean, of all days
to pick a fight with Taylor.
Yeah, I made a mistake.
I lost my cool.
What button could she possibly
have pushed to do that?
Whatever. It doesn't matter now.
All that matters is
getting those files.
I was kind of forced
to burn the files
before Taylor could snatch them.
Well...
how do you plan on convincing
Dallas to trust you now?
Wait. Me?
Yeah.
What happened to us?
Uh, well,
when you didn't show,
I sort of had to go off-book,
and I kind of...
I froze him!
You have ice powers now?
In place, you mean.
Not much better, by the way.
Well, I don't know
what I was thinking.
I kind of panicked.
I think your mistake
was waiting for me.
No, it wasn't, because,
you know, we'd agreed.
You're... you're the doctor,
you know?
You're-you're
the physiology expert.
And he's a man of faith.
I bet you'd have done
a much better job
at convincing
him than me,
if I hadn't made you...
doubt yourself.
I didn't want you to fail.
And because of that,
we both did.
All right, well...
what do we do now?
I think it's time you start
listening to your instincts.
It's not your fault, Max.
You said clones are identical.
Biologically,
but temperament is determined
by how you're raised.
I was raised
to be a tool of war.
Built by Nora and Louise.
And-and then Jones...
Ann and David raised you.
Forget about Nora and Louise.
Forget about Jones.
I can't, Liz.
I mean, that's-that's
the problem. I-I...
I ran to him when I was
a kid. I chose him.
And no matter
how many awful things
Jones does,
I'm still drawn to him.
Max, it's a tether, that's all.
What if that is my destiny?
Then screw destiny.
'Cause you, Max Evans--
you are the most...
genuine, caring, wonderful
person I have ever met.
I-I saw it in your eyes that
first day on the playground,
and I still see it in them,
even now.
You can't be sure.
Yeah, I can, 'cause I'm not
the only one who sees it.
Isobel loves you,
Michael loves you, and...
I love you... Max Evans.
MAN (over radio):
Sheriff Taylor on-site
at Bandelier University.
Units on standby for backup.
Go find Heath.
I'll catch up.
(sighs, mutters)
Okay, so-so... so you stumbled
at Johns Hopkins.
(scoffs)
It's not the end of the road
for you.
Well, tell that
to Little Miss Professor
"You'll Never Amount
to Anything."
Yeah. Look at her.
She's wrong, first off.
And she's just one voice.
Just one voice,
out of 7.5 billion, man.
All right, so, then...
what about the voice
in my head, hmm?
The one that keeps telling me
that the only thing
I will ever actually
be good at...
is failing?
I mean, that's why
I'm self-medicating
with mindless shooters. I...
I just can't stop thinking
that maybe I'm not strong enough
to pull myself out of this.
Okay, look.
Take it from someone who
literally hears voices
in his head.
None of that's true.
All right, Heath,
you're-you're the only reason
I'm sitting here sane today.
You know, and despite
all these doctors
that said there's nothing wrong
with my head,
you convinced one
to take a further look.
No one else could have
done that.
Did you already see him?
Yeah, he said that, um...
How did he put it? (laughs)
I have some
neural inconsistencies
that are...
...incompatible with human life.
He said you should be dead?
You know, the church says
that, um,
everything happens
for a purpose,
you know, e-even if
you don't understand it yet.
Come on. God can't
save you, Dallas.
Yeah, well, no one can, Heath.
That's... (sighs)
That's the point.
You're saving me right now.
There ain't no way
I'm gonna let you die on me.
How'd you find me?
Uh, I...
spent a lot of time
at the place
that made me feel
safe as a kid, too.
Well, I wish you hadn't
wasted your energy
'cause I'm not going back
with you.
I get it.
I was an ass.
My only excuse is that
when I look at you,
I feel like I'm
looking at a mirror.
Black and beautiful?
Something like that.
You know, the first
time my powers emerged,
I was living with
these religious nuts.
The oldest had it
out for me.
One day, I couldn't
take it anymore.
And I got so angry.
I somehow sent him
through a window
with my mind.
How'd they react?
At first they thought I
was possessed by a demon.
But when burning me with
a cross didn't work,
they thought I was the demon.
And you believed them.
I was nine.
I didn't know
what I was.
Except alone.
Like you.
You know, it wasn't until...
after being kicked out of
my third separate foster home,
you know, that it dawned
on me, maybe...
my parents weren't dead.
You know, maybe
they abandoned me,
you know, because I was cursed.
That's when you met Heath?
Yeah, he was the only person
I could really trust.
ISOBEL:
We did a, um,
pretty terrible job
at convincing you
to let us
into your inner circle.
You'll have to forgive us.
We don't really meet
people like us.
What is... us? (laughs)
CRISPR isn't gonna get
you all the way there.
You're too late, Roswell.
My entire life, people have
been telling me I'm not
good enough, and they're wrong.
I'm sorry.
You saved my life,
and I sent you away
'cause I was afraid.
But don't let my mistake
lead you to an even bigger one.
You don't need Jones
to save Dallas.
It's too high
a price to pay.
You'd be selling your soul.
You have no idea what Dallas
and I have been through.
I know how far you'd go
to save him,
'cause I've gone just as far
to save the people that I love.
Heath, you don't want to feel
the way I've been feeling.
'Cause all it's been is guilt
and anger and confusion.
I can help you save your friend.
I've been studying alien
physiology for a long time.
You helped me...
when I was confused
about Genoryx.
Let me help you now.
(sighs)
Jones thinks CRISPR has a part
to play in his endgame.
I can buy you some time.
Liz?
Max.
I'm not leaving without him.
HEATH:
No, no.
If Jones finds you here,
he will kill you.
You have to go now.
Not without you.
All right, forgive me
if I'm skeptical. I...
That thing's haunted me
for 25 years.
Well, we fixed it
a few days ago.
It shouldn't hurt anybody
anymore.
Your neurological disorder
is a product
of the distorted frequency
from the alien glass
inside that machine.
I don't know if
it's reversible,
but you have my word that I will
do my best to figure it out.
Y'all still haven't told me why
this is so important.
My mom risked her life
to build that thing in prison.
She said it holds a message
for someone on the outside.
ISOBEL: We think
that someone is you.
And the message is key
to saving someone
very important to us,
and stopping an enemy that
hunted all three of our parents.
It's as complicated
as it sounds,
but two planets are at stake,
and the soul of a guy
I don't very much like
hangs in the balance.
All right, well, uh,
I guess saving souls is kind of
on my business card, right?
(sighs)
Turn it on.
(chirps, whirs)
♪ I don't want
to set the world on fire... ♪
Hello, my son.
You're... my dad?
Merely his consciousness,
but that doesn't change
how much I love you,
son.
The Empath, the Engineer
and I set out
to make a better world
for our children.
As a triad, we found
strength in our unity.
And I hope
that the children of our triad
will share that connection,
as well.
But...
there's bad news.
There is a chance
that someone will come for you.
He will be looking for
my equation, which is
being embedded into
your consciousness as we speak.
The equation is
the framework
for the chemical
weapon that will
decouple the dictator from
all his vessels permanently.
You cannot allow
him to have it
under any circumstance.
It is
the key to his demise,
but in the dictator's
wicked hands,
it will also only make his reign
of terror...
everlasting.
I am sorry
for what we could not fix.
But I hope my memories
of the paths that I have taken
for good and bad
will help light the way
for what we could not do.
Trust in your triad, my son.
Use each other.
If you do that,
you will succeed
at finishing what we started.
(crackling)
Our ride's just right over here.
Well, technically, I guess
it's your ride, but
I'm gonna grab it.
(sighs)
How'd you get him
back on your side?
I didn't give up on him.
Just like
I'm not giving up on us.
(shuddering)
Well, what's wrong, Liz?
Were you expecting someone else?
(vehicle approaching)
No. Heath!
(high-pitched ringing)
Jones.
(gun clicks)
TAYLOR:
Freeze!
I don't know who you are,
but you are not Max Evans.
I just tased him and cuffed him
to the handrailing.
(high-pitched ringing)
What?
(gasps softly)
I never should have
underestimated you, Sheriff.
Now, you have a
choice to make, Liz.
Come with me,
or watch Sheriff Taylor
put a hole through her head.
Leave her alone, okay?
I'll go with you.
Delighted to hear that.
(high-pitched ringing)
(gasps)
No!
I said I'd go with you!
You can tourniquet her leg
in the car.
Now, cut my tether.
Refuse, and her death is on you.
Just stop!
Come along, Sheriff.
The four of us are going
for a drive.
(sucks air)
Hmm.
♪ Running in a circle ♪
♪ Circle of fire... ♪
You know what I've been
thinking?
I'm thinking it's done me
no favors running from my past.
And if I didn't have you
to show me the way,
then I would've never
met my triad.
My real family.
No.
Mm.
That was all you, Michael.
We're not the same kids
we were back in high school,
in the back
of a pickup truck.
♪ I want to
feel something new... ♪
Wishing on a shooting star.
♪ Oh, oh-oh-oh... ♪
Feels different now between us.
Yeah. It's better.
Mm.
But still, um...
Cosmic?
Yeah.
♪ ♪
You sang to me
in a crowded cowboy bar.
So I'm here to tell you,
Alexander Manes...
...that I'm home.
♪ Feel it coming on ♪
♪ Earth beneath me falls off ♪
♪ Frozen in time ♪
♪ The past will never
find me... ♪
Yo.
Doc. Wait. Hold on.
You can't leave.
It's not every day
I meet an MD
who doesn't give me
a death sentence.
(laughs)
Don't get ahead of yourself.
We've still got some work to do.
What's all this stuff?
I don't know.
I don't know. It just...
it just keeps flooding in.
But, um...
uh, everything we say--
it falls under doctor-pastor
confidentiality, yeah?
Yeah. Of course.
What's on your mind?
(groans)
DALLAS:
Right after
Michael and Isobel came to,
I got a bit more from my father
in terms of a way
to stop the dictator.
He told me that, um,
if we can't separate Max
from his destiny...
♪ Feel it coming on ♪
...the responsibility falls
to me.
♪ Feel it coming on... ♪
(sighs)
Come on...
(phone rings and vibrates)
Mmm.
Michael, get Isobel.
Jones has Liz.
I'll have to be the one...
to kill him.
♪ Feel it coming on. ♪
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
WARNER BROS. TELEVISION
and TOYOTA.
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org